>> Reporter: OVER THE PAST SEVEN
YEARS, ACROSS INDIA, ALMOST
EVERY CITIZEN HAS STOOD IN LINE
TO GET A NEW NATIONAL I.D.
>> NEXT, NEXT.
>> Reporter: IT IS A 12-DIGIT
NUMBER BACKED BY BIOMETRIC
SECURITY.
A HEAD SHOT, PLUS FINGERPRINTS,
PLUS AN IRIS SCAN.
IT IS THE MOST EXHAUSTIVE
HEADCOUNT BY A COUNTRY IN
HISTORY.
AJAY BUSHAN PANDEY HEADS
AADHAAR, THE AGENCY RUNNING THE
IDENTIFICATION PROGRAM.
>> WE HAVE NOW REACHED THE
FIGURE OF 1.15 BILLION PEOPLE.
AMONG THE ADULTS, MORE THAN 99%
OF THE ADULTS HAVE AADHAAR NOW.
>> Reporter: PANDEY SAYS THE
AADHAAR PROJECT, WHICH HAS SO
FAR COST 90 BILLION RUPEES--
ABOUT A BILLION-AND-A-HALF
DOLLARS-- IMPROVES NATIONAL
SECURITY BY MAKING IT EASIER TO
MONITOR BORDER CROSSINGS WITH
INDIA'S NEIGHBORS, LIKE PAKISTAN
AND BANGLADESH.
HE SAYS THE BIOMETRIC I.D.s
VERIFY IDENTITY, AND WEED OUT
CORRUPTION BY REPLACING PAPER
RECORDS-- IF THEY EVEN EXIST--
WITH ELECTRONIC ONES.
AADHAAR IS BRINGING VAST
SECTIONS OF THE COUNTRY THAT
BARELY ENTERED THE INDUSTRIAL
AGE, INTO THE DIGITAL AGE.
MANY PEOPLE IN INDIA DON'T HAVE
BIRTH CERTIFICATES OR FORMAL
I.D.s, AND THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
THAT THE AADHAAR PROGRAM WILL
CORRECT THIS PROBLEM BY ISSUING
EVERYONE A UNIQUE BIOMETRIC
IDENTIFICATION.
"A TOOL OF INCLUSION" IS WHAT
THE GOVERNMENT CALLS IT.
A THIRD OF INDIA'S POPULATION
SURVIVES ON LESS THAN $2 A DAY.
THEY AND MANY LOW-TO-MIDDLE
INCOME PEOPLE RECEIVE GOVERNMENT
BENEFITS, INCLUDING TEMPORARY
EMPLOYMENT IN PUBLIC WORKS, FARM
SUBSIDIES, AND FOOD COMMODITIES
DISTRIBUTED THROUGH RATION
SHOPS.
THE SYSTEM IS RIFE WITH FRAUD:
FAKE PAPER I.D.s, FAKE
BENEFICIARIES, AND THEFT BY
MIDDLEMEN PREYING ON VULNERABLE,
OFTEN ILLITERATE PEOPLE.
THE NEW, HARDER TO FAKE I.D.s
ARE DESIGNED TO ALLEVIATE THESE
PROBLEMS, SAYS A SPOKESMAN FOR
INDIA'S RULING PARTY, THE
B.J.P., IN THE CAPITAL OF DELHI.
>> 30 YEARS BACK, WHEN LATE
MR. RAJIV GANDHI WAS PRIME
MINISTER OF INDIA, HE HAS USED A
PHRASE: "WHEN 100 RUPEES GOES
FROM DELHI, ONLY 15 OR 16 RUPEES
REACHES TO THE TARGETED POOR."
NOW, WE HAVE ENSURED THAT IF
100 RUPEES GOES FROM HERE, THE
ENTIRE 100 RUPEES DIRECTLY
REACHES TO THE PERSON CONCERNED.
>> Reporter: GIVEN ITS PROMISE
OF SECURITY AND EFFICIENCY, THE
GOVERNMENT RECENTLY DECIDED TO
MAKE AADHAAR MANDATORY FOR A
GROWING NUMBER OF FINANCIAL
TRANSACTIONS.
EVERY BANK ACCOUNT AND TAX
RETURN MUST NOW BE LINKED TO
ONE'S BIOMETRIC I.D., AND AN
AADHAAR NUMBER IS NOW REQUIRED
TO RECEIVE ANY WELFARE BENEFITS.
>> THE WORLD BANK HAS ESTIMATED
THAT IF GOVERNMENT OF INDIA USES
AADHAAR IN ALL ITS PUBLIC
WELFARE SCHEMES, THE ANNUAL
SAVINGS WOULD BE TO THE TUNE OF
ALMOST $11 BILLION EVERY YEAR.
>> I THINK THAT THE SAVINGS THAT
THE GOVERNMENT CLAIMS WHICH
SPRING FROM AADHAAR ARE VASTLY
EXAGGERATED.
>> Reporter: OPPONENTS OF
AADHAAR, LIKE COLUMNIST AND
EDITOR SIDDHARTH VARADARAJAN,
WERE SKEPTICAL WHEN IT BEGAN AS
A VOLUNTARY PROGRAM TO IMPROVE
TRANSPARENCY IN THE WELFARE
SYSTEM.
NOW, THEY ARE ALARMED.
VARADARAJAN SAYS A COUNTRY WHERE
300 MILLION PEOPLE-- A QUARTER
OF THE POPULATION-- DO NOT HAVE
RELIABLE ELECTRICITY, IS
UNPREPARED TO TAKE SUCH A HUGE
DIGITAL LEAP.
>> YOU NEED ELECTRICITY 24/7,
YOU NEED THE INTERNET UP AND
RUNNING 24/7, YOU NEED PROPER
DATA SPEEDS.
SO, GIVEN THE LIMITATIONS OF
TECHNOLOGY, GIVEN THE ABSENCE OF
A PRIVACY LAW, FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO STEAMROLLER THIS
KIND OF SCHEME, TO MY MIND,
SEEMS TO BE RATHER ILL-ADVISED.
>> Reporter: INTERNET SERVICE IS
AT BEST SPORADIC IN MANY PARTS
OF INDIA, AND IN REGIONS WHERE
AADHAAR I.D.s ARE NOW REQUIRED,
ONE RECENT REPORT BY A WORKERS'
RIGHTS GROUP FOUND THE SYSTEM
HAS DONE LITTLE TO REDUCE
CORRUPTION.
ATTORNEY GAUTAM BHATIA
REPRESENTS SOME AADHAAR
OPPONENTS AND CITIZEN ACTIVISTS
WHO'VE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT TO
COURT.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU ARE, SAY,
A FARMER IN THE RURAL AREAS,
THEN YOU ARE, SAY, ENTITLED TO
RATIONS OR TO KEROSENE, FOR
EXAMPLE, OIL.
AND WHEN THAT IS BASED UPON YOUR
BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION, YOU
HAVE TO GO TO THE PERSON WHO IS
AUTHORIZED TO AUTHENTICATE YOU.
AND THAT PERSON MAY SIMPLY SAY
YOUR AUTHENTICATION FAILED AND
NOT GIVE YOU YOUR ENTITLEMENT,
AND THEN YOU ARE BASICALLY LEFT
WITHOUT THAT FOR THAT ONE MONTH,
AND IN FACT THE REPORT SHOWS
THAT MANY FAMILIES HAVE GONE
MANY MONTHS WITHOUT ACCESS TO
VERY IMPORTANT, IMPORTANT,
ENTITLEMENTS.
>> Reporter: BHATIA SAYS THE NEW
TECHNOLOGY WILL NOT WIPE OUT
CORRUPTION, BUT IT HAS VIOLATED
A BASIC TENET OF DEMOCRACY:
PRIVACY.
>> YOU'RE GIVING THE STATE
CENTRALIZED ACCESS TO A VERY
VAST CITIZENRY'S DATA, PERSONAL
DATA.
THAT IS WHERE THE PROBLEM LIES.
YOU ARE FUNDAMENTALLY ALTERING
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
STATE AND THE INDIVIDUAL.
YOU ARE PUTTING THE INDIVIDUAL
IN A POSITION WHERE HER ACTIONS
ARE VISIBLE IN A CERTAIN WAY TO
THE STATE, WHEREAS WE THINK THAT
THE RELATIONSHIP SHOULD BE THE
OTHER WAY AROUND.
>> Reporter: ALREADY, THERE HAVE
BEEN SEVERAL LEAKS OF PERSONAL
DATA.
AADHAAR OPPONENTS WORRY ROGUE
OPERATORS OR HACKERS COULD
STEAL BIOMETRIC DATA LIKE
FINGERPRINTS, ALLOWING INDIANS
TO BE PROFILED FOR COMMERCIAL OR
POLITICAL PURPOSES.
BUT AADHAAR'S DIRECTOR SAYS HIS
AGENCY'S SYSTEMS ARE STATE OF
THE ART, AND PRIVACY CONCERNS
ARE OVERBLOWN.
HE ADDS, WHEN THE SYSTEM
AUTHENTICATES A PERSON, IT DOES
NOT KEEP ANY RECORDS OF
TRANSACTIONS.
>> AADHAAR ALSO PLACES
RESTRICTION ON MERGING OF
VARIOUS DATA BASES.
RIGHT.
SO YOU CANNOT LINK THE VARIOUS
DATABASES AND CREATE A
SURVEILLANCE TOOL.
AADHAAR ACT PROVIDES A VERY
STRONG PROTECTION AGAINST ANY
SUCH MOVE, SO ANY VIOLATION OF
THE LAW WILL BE TAKEN VERY
SERIOUSLY.
>> Reporter: EDITOR VARADARAJAN
IS NOT REASSURED, BECAUSE, HE
SAYS, THE RULE OF LAW IS
FREQUENTLY FLOUTED BY CORRUPT OR
INCOMPETENT OFFICIALS.
>> IF INDIA WAS A BETTER
GOVERNED STATE, IF THE RULE OF
LAW OPERATED IN A MORE
TRANSPARENT MANNER, HALF OF
THESE OBJECTIONS WOULD VANISH.
>> Reporter: WHEN HE WAS IN THE
OPPOSITION, INDIAN PRIME
MINISTER NARENDRA MODI CALLED
AADHAAR A GIMMICK.
BUT IN POWER, HE'S EMBRACED IT,
INSISTING HIS GOVERNMENT HAS
BUILT-IN PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.
AND MODI WANTS TO VASTLY EXPAND
ITS SCOPE.
>> THE WHOLE ACT WAS ENACTED FOR
THE PURPOSE OF PASSING ON THE
SUBSIDIES MORE EFFICIENTLY, NOT
TO CONVERT A DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY
INTO A POLICE STATE.
>> Reporter: AADHAAR HAS SPARKED
ROBUST DEBATE ON INDIAN NEWS
OUTLETS LIKE "MIRROR NOW," BUT
NOT SO MUCH IN THE STREETS.
>> (translated): IT WORKS.
TO OPEN A BANK ACCOUNT, IT
WORKS.
>> Reporter: IN THIS POOR
SECTION OF DELHI WHERE ALMOST
EVERYONE HAS AN AADHAAR NUMBER,
THERE'S BEEN NO CONTROVERSY,
BECAUSE, PEOPLE TOLD US, THEY
HAVE FAR MORE BASIC WORRIES.
"NOTHING LOST, NOTHING GAINED,"
WITH THE NEW I.D., THIS WOMAN
SAYS, AS SHE WASHED CANS SHE'D
FILL WITH WATER AS SOON AS THE
MUNICIPAL TANKER ARRIVED.
THERE'S NO RUNNING WATER HERE.
AND, THIS MAN COMPLAINED, RATION
SHOPS OFTEN CLAIM THEY ARE OUT
OF THE SUBSIDIZED RICE AND OTHER
ESSENTIALS.
INDIA'S SUPREME COURT HAS
AFFIRMED THE GOVERNMENT'S RIGHT
TO LINK AADHAAR TO WELFARE
BENEFITS AND TAX RETURNS.
BUT IT HAS YET TO RULE ON
WHETHER BEING FORCED TO PROVIDE
BIOMETRIC INFORMATION VIOLATES
AN INDIVIDUAL'S RIGHT TO
PRIVACY.
WHEN THE COURT ANSWERS THAT
QUESTION, THE FATE OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST SINGLE DATABASE
OF BIOMETRIC INFORMATION WILL BE
AT STAKE.